Right and wrong are social concepts. They have no existential relevance.
Devi is like a scream – a madness that is neither insanity nor compulsiveness, but pure ecstasy.
You too can be a Mahatma. When you drop the calculation “What about me?” and function to your fullest, wherever you are, you will shine.
Religions divide – spiritual process includes.
Once you transcend the fear of suffering, you will naturally explore life to the fullest.
When you earn people’s love and respect by how you love and respect them, it not only enriches your business – it enriches your life.
When you take your own thoughts and emotions seriously, you disengage yourself from the rest of existence.
What is of utmost importance is within you.
Unless you are oblivious to your own suffering, you have no right to be oblivious to other people’s suffering.
One significant thing that you can do for your children is to invest some time into taking them out into nature.
Collaboration is far more powerful than competition. Do not think that only if you are pushed to the wall, you will do your best.
Modern science has its value in terms of utility, but it cannot open up existence to human experience.
I barely belong to this world, but still I’m participating.
What is the meaning of life? It is too great a phenomenon to fit into any meaning.
For the sort of potential that a human being carries, it is a very brief life.
Life and death are like inhalation and exhalation. They always exist together.
The physical is only a small aspect of existence. In this cosmos, not even 1% is physical – the rest is non-physical.
It is not your qualifications but your exposure in life that makes you who you are.
Passion can choose. Compassion cannot choose – it includes everyone and everything.
The purpose of human activity is to transact, touch, and transform.
A human being need not be useful. If he or she blossoms into a full-fledged human being, that is good enough.
Denying human beings the possibility to fulfill their natural longing to become boundless is a true violation of human rights.
When you laugh at someone, you laugh at existence, you laugh at the Creator, you laugh at everything. There is no joy in that.
Pay attention to life. Something tremendous is happening every moment.
If tears of joy, tears of love, tears of ecstasy have not washed your cheeks, you are yet to experience life.
Creation is explosively beautiful the way it is. You don’t have to add any frills to it – neither to your own life nor to anyone else’s.
Jesus said, “The kingdom of God is within you.” Yoga is about experiencing it.
Devotion is a dimension that will allow you to sail across even if you do not know the way.
Yesterday lives only in your mind.
You cannot control human aspirations, but for sure you can control human populations.
Those who try to avoid uncertainty only end up avoiding possibilities.
Any disease fundamentally manifests because of a certain imbalance in the pranic system.
Youth have enormous potential. If we can inspire them to identify with humanity as a whole, the impact on the world will be tremendous.
A seed that does not sprout is as good as a pebble. For the divine seed that you are to flourish, you have to open up.
The family is a training ground to rise beyond likes and dislikes.
Spiritual process means you don’t want to be a vegetative existence but a dynamic life, moving towards its boundless state.
If we want to create a gentler, saner society, we need a gentler economy.
With morality, you will become crooked. With humanity, your heart will naturally beat for everything in existence.
Vijayadashami is about conquering the three basic qualities of existence: tamas, rajas, and satva. May this be a day of victory for you.
Education needs inspiration, not just information. Only inspired human beings can transform their own lives and lives around them.
Food is not a commodity – food is life.
To be committed to each other beyond success and failure, health and ill-health, life and death – that’s what makes you a family.
Children don’t listen to you. They observe you.
If someone loves you because you are theirs, it is about you being their property. If someone loves you for who you are, you are fortunate.
If your energy body is in full vibrancy, the physical body will naturally fix itself.
Most people are ego-sensitive, not life-sensitive.
What you see as cosmos is a living mind – intelligent space.
If you do a yoga that does not change the patterns of energy within you, I would say, don’t waste your time on it.
It would be wonderful if this world was guided by little children, because they are closer to life than anyone else.
Everything that can be created has already been done in creation. As human beings, we can only imitate, not create as such.
Negative energies can’t touch you if you are in a state of meditativeness.
Whether it is your work, your love, or your life – unless you throw your entire self into it, you will never know what it is.
To simply sit here and know the tenderness of being alive means being drenched in love.
In yoga, you never chase an experience – you only prepare for it.
If you make yourself in such a way no one can help loving you, that’s a good way to be.
How you are should never be determined by how someone else is. If you allow that, you will be a slave to that someone.
Consciousness is a quantum leap from the physical to the non-physical dimension.
There can be no effect without a cause.
If you realized that life is truly precious, you would dedicate yourself to life, the ways of life and the source of life.
If we create a wave of consciousness in the world, saving the planet will be a natural consequence.
Ultimately, yoga is the cohesion between the limited and the unlimited, the physical and the non-physical.
Every privilege comes with a responsibility. If you don’t take the responsibility, you will lose the privilege.
“God loves me” is of no consequence – he has to love the mistakes that he makes.
Vision is not an aggregation of your desires. Vision means seeing a solution for existing situations.
Our lives become beautiful not because we are perfect. Our lives become beautiful because we put our heart into whatever we do.​May the coming year offer you immense possibilities to touch & transform many lives. With Regards & Blessings, Sadhguru
“Good” people have caused maximum harm in the world. We don’t need “good” people. We need joyful and sensible people.
If you were rooted like a tree, you would clearly understand you are part of the planet. Just because you are mobile, you lost that sense.
Thought is the most surface element of intelligence. What happens in one DNA molecule is a billion times more complex than your thought.
This is the time of the year to get rid of all the unnecessary things – in your home, your body, mind, emotions – and start life afresh.
Your parents gave you a human body. After that, whether you want to get raised by them or you want to grow up should be your choice.
Once you are conscious, you are inclusive. Once you are inclusive, you are a solution.
Wherever you are, whatever you are exposed to, pick up the best from every situation. Then life is learning.
Whether farmer or industrialist, baba or mullah, man, woman, or child – only if every individual does well, the country will do well.
The purpose of the Divine is not to give you this or that. By bringing fulfillment, Linga Bhairavi supports you towards your mukti.
When human beings become material for you that you can use and dump, you will pay the price.
Once you are meditative, music will naturally be a part of your life. Everything is vibration – everything is sound.
Consciousness is not a bunch of thoughts or a certain level of understanding – it’s a boundless dimension.
Courage is an expression of fear. You need courage only because there is fear.
If you want to enjoy success, before you engineer situations, first of all you have to engineer yourself.
The deeper you get into pleasure, the deeper is your bondage to this something or someone.
“I want to change you” – that is not a revolution. “I’m willing to change” – now this is a revolution.
Your thoughts and emotions are the drama that you create in your mind. You must be able to end it somewhere.
The moment you function in the world without being concerned about what is happening to life around you, you are a Criminal.
If you try to live that which is past, that which IS will bypass you.
If you want to be successful, don’t seek success – seek competence, empowerment; do nothing short of the best that you can do.
Looking at everything through your phone is only numbing your perception – it does not really enhance your experience of life in any way.
With yoga, not only your body should become flexible – your mind and emotions, and above all your consciousness should become flexible.
Pleasure is just a shadow of joy. When there is no joy in you, you become a pleasure seeker.
Life is fluid, ever evolving. The more dynamic you are, the more happens in your life, all the time.
Every basic act like eating and copulating becomes magical when you do it consciously.
The intellect is a reasonably sharp knife. If you do not know how to hold it, you keep cutting yourself.
Love is not a relationship. Love is a certain sweetness of emotions.
When it comes to integrity, there is a serious amount of work to be done in this country – not only on politicians.
Being exuberant, balanced, and equanimous gears you up for the highest possibility of life.
Lethargy comes from overconsumption of either food or thought.
Efficiency should always be out of love and care for people around you – not a machine-like, unconcerned action.
Whether the world is going to rejig itself or not – it is time you rejig your life.
The best thing you can do for your children is keeping them the way they were born – an active intelligence, no conclusions.
I would say 70% of the ailments in the world could be handled with a better sense of living, eating, and atmosphere.
Everything that happens in the material world is essentially a certain kind of wave. If you are a good sailor, every wave is a possibility.
How deeply you touch lives around you is how rich your life is. May the coming year offer you immense possibilities to touch & transform many lives. Love & Blessings
If you pay enough attention, you will know the tune of the creation, and you will naturally find your own rhythm.
You don’t like it when it’s directed at you, but you think it’s a solution to direct anger at others.
Any fool can make a prediction, and he will be right 50% of the time. Don’t make predictions – become sensitive to life.
Sankranti and Pongal are about expressing gratitude to all that makes our life. Get involved with life. Go out, feel the air, and celebrate!
If you have even a little mastery over the five elements within you, life will happen the way you want it to.
Life is rooted in reality – not in your thoughts and emotions.
The fundamental aspiration of the human being is to be rooted in the physical but to have a taste of that which is beyond.
