When you consciously choose to be ordinary, you become extraordinary.
Responsibility means being able to respond to whatever situation you may face in your life.
No work is stressful. It is your inability to manage your body, mind, and emotions that makes it stressful.
Negative energies can’t touch you if you are in a state of meditation.
Karma is your survival and your bondage. And if you handle it right, it can also be your liberation.
Spiritual process is not for the dead or the dying; it is for the living who want to become fully alive in all dimensions of life.
Do not try to fix whatever comes in your life. Fix yourself in such a way that whatever comes, you will be fine.
Intelligence essentially means that your intellect is sharp enough to see life the way it is.
A child is a life that has not gone too far away from the Creator. Know a child to know life.
Whether it is your work, your love, or your life – unless you throw your entire self into it, you will never know what it is.
People try to create an outwardly perfect life, but the quality of life is based on the inward.
The very life within you is longing to be joyful because joyfulness is the nature of the source of creation.
People call books holy, but they are yet to realize that life is holy.
The most beautiful moments in life are moments when you are expressing your joy, not when you are seeking it.
If you want to really know higher dimensions of life, there needs to be a constant sense of peacefulness and joyfulness within you.
If you don’t invest your life in what you really care for, your life will be wasted. You will not fly – you will just drag yourself through life.
Do not wait for miracles to happen. The greatest miracle in life is life itself.
If you seek security in life, unknowingly you seek death. The only truly secure place is your grave.
The fear is simply because you are not living with life, You are living in your mind.
If you know how to keep yourself pleasant within, irrespective of what is happening around you, ultimate liberation cannot be denied to you.
Most of the time you are thinking about life, not living life.
Whatever happens – ultimately, life corrects itself.
Life has come from a very beautiful source. If you remain in touch with that source, everything about you will be beautiful.
Detachment does not mean non-involvement. You can be deeply involved but not entangled.
All beliefs will crash somewhere. Only reality will sustain itself.
Spirituality does not mean going away from life. Spirituality means becoming alive in the fullest possible way so you are not just alive on the surface, you are alive to the core.
Awareness means grasping life just the way it is, without contamination by mental projections.
Unless you are oblivious to your own suffering, you have no right to be oblivious to other people’s suffering.
I do not understand why people want to control their minds. I want them to liberate their minds.
If you want to be successful, don’t seek success – seek competence, empowerment; do nothing short of the best that you can do.
Too many people are hungry not because there is dearth of food. It is because there is dearth of love and care in human hearts.
Don’t be dead serious about your life – it’s just a play.
If you choose, you can be joyful every moment of your life. It’s time you made your choice.
Your thoughts and emotions may keep you fully engaged right now, but they are just small offshoots of life – they are not life itself.
Once your life is your expression of blissfulness, you will not be in conflict with anyone.
To live and operate in the world, you may have to identify with something. Play with your identifications, don’t let them rule you.
The mind is a powerful instrument. Every thought, every emotion that you create changes the very chemistry of your body.
Incredible things can be done simply if we are committed to making them happen.
When you exist here only as a body and a mind, suffering is inevitable.
When who you are and what you are is not decided by any external forces, then you are in dignity.
Life is fluid, ever-evolving. The more dynamic you are, the more happens in your life, all the time.
Whatever your goal in life, unless you develop a great urgency, what could be near will be far away.
When every moment, you experience yourself as the source of creation, not as a piece of creation, then you are realized.
Only if you are joyful, you can be free from the fruit of action.
Intelligence is of paramount importance to live life sensibly because, without intelligence, there is no clarity. And Clarity is intelligence everyone is capable of.
It is not your qualifications but your exposure in life that makes you who you are.
A snake knows more about what is happening around than any other creature because it has no ears to listen to gossip – only direct perception.
A human being is like a seed. Either you can keep it as it is, or you can make it grow into a wonderful tree with flowers and fruits.
Now, you believe you are a material person dabbling with. But essentially, you are a spiritual being dabbling with the material world means you have started seeing life with utmost clarity. There are no more illusions about it. You see everything just the way it is.
The source of creation is within you. You can be just a piece of flesh, or you can be the Creator himself – this is the choice and potential you have.
Having a good home, eating good food, wearing good clothes, are a means to living well; they are not the goals of our life. The quality of your life is decided by how peaceful and joyful you are.
”I want to change you” – that is not a revolution. I’m willing to change” – now this is a revolution.
Do not try to be special. If you are simply ordinary, more ordinary than others, you will become extraordinary.
Frustration, discouragement, and depression mean you are working against yourself.
The sign of intelligence is that you are constantly wondering. Idiots are always dead sure about every damn thing they are doing in their life.
The only reason why you are unhappy is because you are trying to be happy.
All along, you’ve been shaping your destiny unconsciously. But you can also work on it consciously. If you make the effort to access your core and realize that everything is your responsibility, and shift your focus inside you, then you can rewrite your destiny.
Your personality is something that you created. Once you are aware of that, you could create it whichever way you want.
Confusion is better than stupid conclusions. In confusion, there is still a possibility. In stupid conclusion, there is no possibility.
A materialistic person is ruthless with other people but kind to himself. A spiritual person is ruthless with himself but kind to everybody else.
Your body and your mind can be receptacles to perceive the whole cosmos – if only you do not identify yourself with them.
If we do not work for individual transformation, talking about world peace is just entertainment.
We neither need a political revolution nor a religious revolution. What we need is an inner transformation in human beings.
Once you have access to the source of creation within you, your health and wellbeing will naturally be taken care of.
If you cultivate your body, your mind, your emotions, and your energies to a certain level of maturity, meditation will blossom.
Self-transformation is not just about changing yourself. It means shifting yourself to a completely new dimension of experience and perception.
If it is conditional, it is not love.
The best thing that you can do to this world is to be joyous. Being joyful is the greatest offering you can make to the world.
When the very source of creation is within you, all the solutions are within you. The problems are just created by you.
If you try to live that which is past, that which IS will bypass you.
Faith is not something that you can cultivate. If it happens to you, it happens, if it doesn’t happen to you it doesn’t happen, that’s all. Does it mean to say – I have to just sit and wait and someday it will fall upon me?” No, it is just that if you understand the fundamentals of living here, in this existence, you will see, for anything to happen, you must create the right kind of situation.
If you strive to make yourself in such a way that nobody can help loving you, life will blossom, everything will yield.
The most fundamental and the most important aspect of the spiritual process can in no way be stopped by anybody – except yourself.
Ignorance is not bliss. Ignorance is brutal. The brutality of ignorance is such that it will make you dead while alive.
If you just live totally, you will dissolve lots of karma. Living totally means that you experience anything that comes fully and intensely.
