Right and wrong are social concepts. They have no existential relevance.
Devi is like a scream – a madness that is neither insanity nor compulsiveness, but pure ecstasy.
You too can be a Mahatma. When you drop the calculation “What about me?” and function to your fullest, wherever you are, you will shine.
Religions divide – spiritual process includes.
Once you transcend the fear of suffering, you will naturally explore life to the fullest.
When you earn people’s love and respect by how you love and respect them, it not only enriches your business – it enriches your life.
When you take your own thoughts and emotions seriously, you disengage yourself from the rest of existence.
What is of utmost importance is within you.
One significant thing that you can do for your children is to invest some time into taking them out into nature.
Collaboration is far more powerful than competition. Do not think that only if you are pushed to the wall, you will do your best.
Modern science has its value in terms of utility, but it cannot open up existence to human experience.
I barely belong to this world, but still I’m participating.
What is the meaning of life? It is too great a phenomenon to fit into any meaning.
For the sort of potential that a human being carries, it is a very brief life.
Life and death are like inhalation and exhalation. They always exist together.
The physical is only a small aspect of existence. In this cosmos, not even 1% is physical – the rest is non-physical.
Passion can choose. Compassion cannot choose – it includes everyone and everything.
The purpose of human activity is to transact, touch, and transform.
A human being need not be useful. If he or she blossoms into a full-fledged human being, that is good enough.
Denying human beings the possibility to fulfill their natural longing to become boundless is a true violation of human rights.
When you laugh at someone, you laugh at existence, you laugh at the Creator, you laugh at everything. There is no joy in that.
Pay attention to life. Something tremendous is happening every moment.
If tears of joy, tears of love, tears of ecstasy have not washed your cheeks, you are yet to experience life.
Creation is explosively beautiful the way it is. You don’t have to add any frills to it – neither to your own life nor to anyone else’s.
Jesus said, “The kingdom of God is within you.” Yoga is about experiencing it.
Devotion is a dimension that will allow you to sail across even if you do not know the way.
Yesterday lives only in your mind.
You cannot control human aspirations, but for sure you can control human populations.
Those who try to avoid uncertainty only end up avoiding possibilities.
Any disease fundamentally manifests because of a certain imbalance in the pranic system.
Youth have enormous potential. If we can inspire them to identify with humanity as a whole, the impact on the world will be tremendous.
A seed that does not sprout is as good as a pebble. For the divine seed that you are to flourish, you have to open up.
The family is a training ground to rise beyond likes and dislikes.
Spiritual process means you don’t want to be a vegetative existence but a dynamic life, moving towards its boundless state.
If we want to create a gentler, saner society, we need a gentler economy.
With morality, you will become crooked. With humanity, your heart will naturally beat for everything in existence.
Vijayadashami is about conquering the three basic qualities of existence: tamas, rajas, and satva. May this be a day of victory for you.
Education needs inspiration, not just information. Only inspired human beings can transform their own lives and lives around them.
Food is not a commodity – food is life.
To be committed to each other beyond success and failure, health and ill-health, life and death – that’s what makes you a family.
If someone loves you because you are theirs, it is about you being their property. If someone loves you for who you are, you are fortunate.
If your energy body is in full vibrancy, the physical body will naturally fix itself.
Most people are ego-sensitive, not life-sensitive.
What you see as cosmos is a living mind – intelligent space.
If you do a yoga that does not change the patterns of energy within you, I would say, don’t waste your time on it.
It would be wonderful if this world was guided by little children, because they are closer to life than anyone else.
Everything that can be created has already been done in creation. As human beings, we can only imitate, not create as such.
Negative energies can’t touch you if you are in a state of meditativeness.
To simply sit here and know the tenderness of being alive means being drenched in love.
In yoga, you never chase an experience – you only prepare for it.
If you make yourself in such a way no one can help loving you, that’s a good way to be.
How you are should never be determined by how someone else is. If you allow that, you will be a slave to that someone.
Consciousness is a quantum leap from the physical to the non-physical dimension.
There can be no effect without a cause.
If you realized that life is truly precious, you would dedicate yourself to life, the ways of life and the source of life.
If we create a wave of consciousness in the world, saving the planet will be a natural consequence.
Ultimately, yoga is the cohesion between the limited and the unlimited, the physical and the non-physical.
Every privilege comes with a responsibility. If you don’t take the responsibility, you will lose the privilege.
“God loves me” is of no consequence – he has to love the mistakes that he makes.
Vision is not an aggregation of your desires. Vision means seeing a solution for existing situations.
Our lives become beautiful not because we are perfect. Our lives become beautiful because we put our heart into whatever we do.
​May the coming year offer you immense possibilities to touch & transform many lives.
“Good” people have caused maximum harm in the world. We don’t need “good” people. We need joyful and sensible people.
If you were rooted like a tree, you would clearly understand you are part of the planet. Just because you are mobile, you lost that sense.
Thought is the most surface element of intelligence. What happens in one DNA molecule is a billion times more complex than your thought.
This is the time of the year to get rid of all the unnecessary things – in your home, your body, mind, emotions – and start life afresh.
Your parents gave you a human body. After that, whether you want to get raised by them or you want to grow up should be your choice.
Once you are conscious, you are inclusive. Once you are inclusive, you are a solution.
Wherever you are, whatever you are exposed to, pick up the best from every situation. Then life is learning.
Whether farmer or industrialist, baba or mullah, man, woman, or child – only if every individual does well, the country will do well.
The purpose of the Divine is not to give you this or that. By bringing fulfillment, Linga Bhairavi supports you towards your mukti.
When human beings become material for you that you can use and dump, you will pay the price.
Once you are meditative, music will naturally be a part of your life. Everything is vibration – everything is sound.
Consciousness is not a bunch of thoughts or a certain level of understanding – it’s a boundless dimension.
Courage is an expression of fear. You need courage only because there is fear.
If you want to enjoy success, before you engineer situations, first of all you have to engineer yourself.
The deeper you get into pleasure, the deeper is your bondage to this something or someone.
“I want to change you” – that is not a revolution. “I’m willing to change” – now this is a revolution.
Your thoughts and emotions are the drama that you create in your mind. You must be able to end it somewhere.
The moment you function in the world without being concerned about what is happening to life around you, you are a Criminal.
With yoga, not only your body should become flexible – your mind and emotions, and above all your consciousness should become flexible.
Pleasure is just a shadow of joy. When there is no joy in you, you become a pleasure seeker.
Life is fluid, ever evolving. The more dynamic you are, the more happens in your life, all the time.
Every basic act like eating and copulating becomes magical when you do it consciously.
The intellect is a reasonably sharp knife. If you do not know how to hold it, you keep cutting yourself.
Love is not a relationship. Love is a certain sweetness of emotions.
When it comes to integrity, there is a serious amount of work to be done in this country – not only on politicians.
Being exuberant, balanced, and equanimous gears you up for the highest possibility of life.
Efficiency should always be out of love and care for people around you – not a machine-like, unconcerned action.
Whether the world is going to rejig itself or not – it is time you rejig your life.
The best thing you can do for your children is keeping them the way they were born – an active intelligence, no conclusions.
I would say 70% of the ailments in the world could be handled with a better sense of living, eating, and atmosphere.
Everything that happens in the material world is essentially a certain kind of wave. If you are a good sailor, every wave is a possibility.
How deeply you touch lives around you is how rich your life is. May the coming year offer you immense possibilities to touch & transform many lives.
If you pay enough attention, you will know the tune of the creation, and you will naturally find your own rhythm.
You don’t like it when it’s directed at you, but you think it’s a solution to direct anger at others.
Any fool can make a prediction, and he will be right 50% of the time. Don’t make predictions – become sensitive to life.
Sankranti and Pongal are about expressing gratitude to all that makes our life. Get involved with life. Go out, feel the air, and celebrate!
If you have even a little mastery over the five elements within you, life will happen the way you want it to.
Life is rooted in reality – not in your thoughts and emotions.
The fundamental aspiration of the human being is to be rooted in the physical but to have a taste of that which is beyond.
One third of the food produced in the world gets wasted, while one in three people do not have sufficient food. This is not a failure of agriculture – it is a failure of the Human Heart.
Mahalaya Amavasya is the one new moon day in the year that offers the most conducive ambience for you to move from untruth to Truth.
Balance, above all, Balance in Life. If you are mentally, physically, and emotionally balanced, you can do everything to the best of your ability.
Whether you are a man, woman, animal, or an ant – the Source of Life is Within You.
What happened yesterday, you cannot change. What is happening today, you can only experience. What is tomorrow, you have to Create.
When the need to be special is gone, that is when you are unique. The significance of Life is in its Uniqueness.
The greatest miracle in the universe is this: Everything comes out of nothing and goes back to nothing.
When you laugh at someone, you laugh at creation and the Creator. It is not out of joy – it is a sickness.
If your Body and Mind take instructions from you, being Healthy, Peaceful, and Joyful is not only a possibility – it is a natural consequence.
Ecstasy is not just a quality of an individual – it is the quality of Nature itself. In this culture, we say ‘Brahmananda,’ which means that the entire Creation is ecstatic.
On this Ganesh Chaturthi, may the Remover of Obstacles clear the way towards your growth and Ultimate Liberation.
Regardless of who or what you are, there is something within every Human Being that always wants to be more than what you are right now.
You can create a million lies, but there is only one Truth.
Grace is subtle. Unless you are alert, you will miss it.
If you are Balanced, you are on board with Life.
Diversity is a Strength. It has arisen in this culture out of richness, not out of divide.
If Life allows you to do what you really care for, that is the greatest privilege.
Physically, our life depends on so many things around us. But our Way of Being need not be dependent upon anything.
The mind is not only memory – it is a window to Consciousness. Memory is only accumulated information. Consciousness contains the whole Cosmos.
When you move in the right direction, you have the Power to Change the direction of the World itself.
The purpose of Meditation is to create the necessary inner ambience for you to live in Joy, Peace, and in turn unfold your genius.
Once you act with Precision, you will free an enormous amount of Energy, and the Impact of what you do will be greatly enhanced.
Whatever you try to avoid becomes the very basis of your Consciousness.
If your Mind, Body, and Energy are well aligned, you can think at any speed and volume you want.
Opinions are shackles, holding you down to a certain level. Perception of Life is Empowerment.
Essentially, all yogic practices are aimed at heightening your Energy, your Awareness, and your Presence.
If you want to know the Joy of activity, the first and foremost thing is to give yourself to activity with total Abandon.
In reality, there is only now. If you know how to handle This Moment, you know how to handle Eternity.
Unless you are constantly striving to be Inclusive in every possible way, you will not explore the full depth and dimension of what you are capable of.
Human intelligence holds the greatest potential in the known universe, if only we use it Consciously.
Mastery of anything does not come without absolute Devotion.
It is not about agreeing with me or disagreeing with me. Just Be with me and Blossom beyond limitations.
With Awareness, you will know the Meaning of Life. With Abandon, you will know the Magic of Life.
As a generation, it is up to us which aspects of Life we enhance before we fall dead. Are we contributing to the grossness or the Beauty of Life.
There is no such thing as work–life balance – it is all Life. The Balance has to be within You.
Wherever you may be, whatever you may be, if you are Willing to Strive, you can evolve yourself Beyond the limitations of Nature.
When you say, ‘My Life is my Karma,’ you are saying, ‘My Life is my Making.’ This is the most dynamic way to exist.
The whole Human Mechanism is so fantastic. If you make it work for you, it will do wonders. We can give you Tools to make it work for you, not against you.
In yogic culture, Growth means Dissolution. You dissolve your limited persona to become as vast as the Universe. When you are nothing, in some way, you are everything.
For you to Do your Best, you must Be at your Best.
For the possibility of Being Human to truly blossom, you must establish that your external circumstances should not dictate what is happening within you.
When you are in Action, hesitation is the worst crime.
Feminine is not a gender – it is a dimension.
If you are deeply involved even with the simplest things in Life, you will see every aspect of Life is spectacular.
Engineer your interiority to facilitate the fullest Blossoming of your Being.
A sense of ease brings you the Power of Peace.
See how you can be of maximum use to the people around you – then you will naturally act appropriately.
Once your relationships are about sharing your Joy, rather than extracting Joy out of someone else, you will have wonderful relationships with anyone.
Yogic practices are like food. Food only works for those who eat it. Yogic practices only work for those who do it.
If you carry yesterday with you, your today becomes very heavy – you can neither float nor fly.
The essence of Krishna is in his unwavering Exuberance. In love, in war, in all kinds of strife, he remains a Joyful Human Being. This is how Life should be lived.
A River is a Life beyond you and me. All of us have a date of birth and a date on which we perish. But the Rivers, no one knows what their date of birth is, and there should never be a date of demise for them. Let this be our commitment, for now and for the future.
If we are committed, we can create a world with much less prejudice, and in turn much less conflict.
If you do what you like with 100% Involvement, then what you do not like, you must do with 200% Involvement. That is breaking limitations.
Whatever the situation, are you becoming a better Human Being – more stable, joyful, and clear. Are you growing. That is the only question.
Being angry is like beating yourself up from the inside.
Unless you constantly strive to be better, you will become a stagnant pool. Stagnation will ultimately poison your life.
Devotion starts as an emotion but does not end there. Ultimately, Devotion results in Dissolution.
Intelligent ones wonder – idiots are dead sure.
Power should not be given to people who have no sense of Inclusiveness.
If you are in a state of reaction, anyone and anything can take charge of your Life. Conscious Response is the way forward.
Once you realize that you have so many limitations of your own and they are all created by you, the longing to break them will arise.
Their own thoughts, emotions, and needs keep most people busy for a lifetime. To be above this is Yoga.
Yoga is about aligning Oneself with the cosmic geometry. Through this alignment, boundless Energy, Intelligence, and Wellbeing arise.
Guru’s Grace is not designed to fulfill your plans but Life’s plan for You.
Only those who work Intensely know what rest is.
Do not wait for miracles to happen. The greatest miracle is Life itself.
Whatever you need will happen if you keep your Energies Exuberant and Focused.
How you are should never be determined by how someone else is to you. Once you allow that, you will be a slave all your Life.
Morality is necessary when Spirituality is absent.
From the atomic to the cosmic, the physical can only be cyclical. The more you are identified with your Body, the more cyclical you become.
If you die of Excitement, it is all right. Such a magnificent Creation and you die of boredom – that is a crime.
If your Joy and Love are not enslaved to anyone, but you are joyful and loving by your own nature, then any kind of relationship will flourish.
Empowering Girl Children is paramount. A human being is truly empowered when they feel wonderful by themselves. For that to happen, individuals need a spiritual process in their lives.
If instead of trying to manage your time, you clearly set your Priorities, time will arrange itself around them.
The basic virtue for any Human Being is to be true to yourself – Integrity of thought, emotion, and action.
When an individual is Committed to something beyond their own personal wellbeing, there will be a very powerful situation.
Human suffering is manufactured in the human mind, as are human limitations.
If we do not take care of a few fundamentals of environmental sustainability, the price we pay will be very unfortunate.
Success does not come from the alignment of your stars, but from proper execution and Commitment to fulfilling your Purpose. Above all, to be well aligned within.
Enlightened ones have always been referred to as dwijas or ‘twice born.’ May you obliterate the creaturehood and blossom into a Being.
When you wake up in the morning, the first thing you should do is Smile. You are Alive! Is that not the greatest blessing and reason enough to Smile.
While Karma is your bondage, if you handle it right, Karma can also be a stepping stone to your Liberation.
If you are inclusive, Life happens. If you are exclusive, only your psychological drama happens.
For the kind of Potential that a Human Being carries, it is a very brief Life.
This is what Yoga means: a conscious obliteration of your individual boundaries so that you become a Universal Existence.
Whether you can perform like someone else or not is not the point. The question is, are you exploring the full depth of your Potential.
Your Karma is not in what is happening to you. Your Karma is in the way you Experience and Respond to what is happening to you.
A relationship is about someone else. Love is your nature.
Beyond the noise of marketplace and relationships, wealth and possessions, gods and devils, there is a Temple of Silence. This is where beings are made and unmade.
The root of all Life is in the Soil. Without saving the Soil, there is no way to address issues like climate change, global warming, and ocean pollution.
There is an innate longing within human beings to go beyond all limitations. Naga is a living deity created as an access point to Perceive Life on a larger scale.
Only the physical can be threatened. When a dimension beyond the physical becomes a Living Experience for you, there will be no more fear.
A Great Nation is built with Great People. This is the relentless effort we need to make in the coming years: building individuals who are physically robust, mentally unassailable, and brimming with skills.
Destiny is the cumulative result of all your actions and the impressions you have taken in.
Life is a dream, but the dream is True.
Children do not listen to you. They observe you. Make sure your way of being is an Inspiration.
Compassion is an all-inclusive passion.
If you knew how to manage your system well, you would not create a chemistry of anxiety or misery, but one of Blissfulness.
One life is not more important than another; every life and every species is important to maintain ecological Balance and coherent evolutionary Process. Conscious Human activity is the only way; give it a chance.
The best thing you can do for your children is to ensure they never witness anger, fear or conflict at home. Let them grow up in an atmosphere of Joy and Love.
Wherever you are, whatever you are exposed to, pick up the best from every situation. Then, Life is Learning.
When it comes to Joy, Love, and the Exuberance of Life, you are the Source of it.
Love means being willing to Nurture another Life beyond opinions and prejudice.
The Body is individual. The Mind is individual. But Consciousness cannot be individual; it is All-Inclusive.
Whether you call it a stone, a tree, an animal, a man, a demon, or the Divine – everything is the same Energy, manifesting itself in a million different ways.
Family is a training ground to rise beyond likes and dislikes.
When you are in a great hurry to do something, hold back a few seconds – that is all it takes to shift from compulsiveness to Consciousness.
Meditation is not an act - it is a quality.
The Divine is far more inebriating than wine.
Life is a far larger phenomenon than thought.
There are no bad children – only bad influences.
Yoga is not a sedative but an invigorating force.
Life is at ease. Only the mind can be at tension.
I am not here to solace you. I am here to awaken you.
Joy is a natural phenomenon. Misery is your creation.
Learning is not about earning but a way of flowering.
When you live for everyone, everyone takes care of you.
Conscious action does not produce karma – reaction does.
Birth and death are just passages, not of life but of time.
No one can achieve wellbeing through someone else’s suffering.
With Relentless Commitment, you can create the most incredible.
Belief offers solace. The search for truth offers the solution.
One moment of absolute gratitude can transform your whole life.
Only the one who has lost the need for security is truly secure.
Meditation is a possibility to awaken new dimensions within you.
Color is visual fragrance. Right mix of colors can be uplifting.
There is no such thing as work-life balance has to be within you.
Most people in the world are not busy – they are just preoccupied.
May the labors of your life be not of hardship but of Love and Joy.
There is not a single breath in my life that is not my Guru’s will.
Opinions are like cataracts. They will not allow you to see clearly.
There is no insurance for love. It takes awareness to keep it alive.
One who has a longing to grow has to ensure to be receptive to Grace.
A situation becomes stressful only when you compulsively react to it.
Water is life-making material. Saving water resources is Saving Life.
Consciousness is non-physical. What is non-physical is naturally one.
Power should not be given to people who have no sense of inclusiveness.
A possibility, when not harnessed, becomes a problem in your experience.
Thinking is just a recycling of data that you have gathered in the past.
You cannot exist without the universe. You are not a separate existence.
No matter what life throws at you – what you make out of it is up to you.
I don’t believe in material wealth. My wealth is in the hearts of people.
Whatever is most needed right now, that’s what we should do in the world.
Spirituality is not a disability – it is a phenomenal empowerment of life.
For anyone in whatever they are doing, success will not come without Grace.
Qualifications only give you entry. It is competence that ultimately works.
One who is constantly making U-turns obviously does not want to go anywhere.
Ignorance is boundless. What you are yet to know is a limitless possibility.
Only when you are truly joyful, can you genuinely reach out to other people.
With age, your physical agility may go down; your aliveness need not go down.
If you see someone doing something wrong, condemn the action, not the person.
I am just interested in life. Whatever and wherever, I am inevitably involved.
Heaven and hell are not geographical locations, just dimensions of experience.
On this day, Gautama the Buddha became a Blessed Being to be cherished forever.
Life has a certain pace. You should be joyfully in a hurry but never impatient.
The Beauty of Motherhood is not a certain capability but willingness to include.
Learning per se is always liberating. What is frustrating is when it is imposed.
We have to make people realize that God doesn’t need soldiers who fight for him.
Do you have any proof that you are not already in heaven and making a mess of it?
What you do should not define who you are. Who you are should define what you do.
Only the one who is beyond the fear of losing oneself can know love, can be love.
Beauty is not a question of shapes and forms. It is a question of what you exude.
When pain, misery, or anger happen, it is time to look within you, not around you.
Do what really matters to you in life. Whatever it is, it should be worthy of you.
Don’t think spirituality means having a nice, quiet life – it means being on fire.
Taking care of the environment is not an obligation – our environment is our life.
If we nurture hatred and violence against others, someday, it will come back to us.
Everything in existence is in dynamic motion. Either move with it or rise above it.
Are you creating poison within you or the fragrance of the Divine? This is a choice.
This is the age of expression without perception. To know life, you need perception.
A Guru is a friend who constantly tramples your ego. It’s a very delicate operation.
This moment, how joyful you are within yourself determines the quality of your life.
This land needs more men and women of his ilk and profoundness. Let my country arise!
When people are alone, they become spiritual. When in company, they become religious.
Our concept of education has to go beyond manufacturing cogs for the economic engine.
Memory is like a treadmill. It gives you a lot of exercise, never takes you anywhere.
When you are no more identified with your physicality, you become available to Grace.
Enough tree population in the river basin will make Cauvery walk and bring prosperity.
If you want to live strong, you need to be in touch with the five elements constantly.
Youth have a natural affinity for Truth. Truth meaning what truly works on all levels.
Talking or acting spiritual is of no use. Spirituality is about transforming yourself.
You don’t go to a Guru for solace. He is not a tranquilizer-he is there to awaken you.
Everyone has dreams, but how many are willing to stake their life to fulfill that dream?
I’m trying to increase the percentage of ecstatic people on the planet. You are my hope.
There is no substitute for involvement. Where there is no involvement, there is no life.
Your experience of life does not depend on who or what is around you but on how you are.
Enormous potential and possibilities are destroyed in your life by the fear of suffering.
For compulsiveness, there is only one cure – consciousness. There is simply no other way.
Truth means ‘that which is.’ To make friends with ‘that which is,’ you simply have to Be.
An intelligent person knows that he is a fool but a fool does not know that he is a fool.
Life is a dance of time and energy. Keeping the two in good rhythm is the beauty of life.
A Seeker of Truth shall never know the comfort of conclusions. Only Intensity and Seeking.
The intensity of your experience is more important than the immensity of your possessions.
Jesus said, ‘The kingdom of God is within you.’ Yoga is a method to Experience the Within.
Risk is in the eye of the beholder. For the one who does it, it could be calibrated action.
The idea of God came up because people have no explanation for such a magnificent creation.
Life is just a slice of time. If one values life, one has to do everything at the right time.
Most people in the world are not really busy – they are just preoccupied, and that is tiring.
Children need not fit into caste, creed, or class. They have to blossom into their own nature.
Once your life is an expression of your blissfulness, you will not be in conflict with anyone.
A consecrated space experientially reminds you that there is much more to life than you think.
The intellect is like a knife – the sharper, the better. As long as you know how to handle it.
Book is a tool to access aspects of life that one could not touch, through the eyes of another.
Don’t be dead serious about your life. Seriousness will bring the quality of Death while alive.
A revolutionary beyond compare and above all a being beyond shackles of strife and circumstance.
The purpose of existence is to exist. It is too fantastic to be stymied by meanings of any sort.
Whatever physical activity you do – if you do it with involvement and joy, you are a karma yogi.
May you be overwhelmed by life, this tremendous phenomenon that is creation and Creator at once!
Do you want to look good or feel good? How wonderful you feel within yourself is most important.
My only intention is that you blossom into a full-fledged life because that’s all life is about.
Your brain need not deteriorate with age. With simple yogic practices, you can keep enhancing it.
The beauty of spring is, the fruit is yet to come, but the flower is a promise and a possibility.
If not every day, at least once a month, take stock – are you evolving into a better Human Being.
You want to be loved because you feel incomplete. Otherwise, being loved can be quite a nuisance.
Sport suspends Reality for you, allowing you a breath of fresh air from the rigors of the mundane.
Lust is a strong need. Love is not a need. When you love, you settle down; nothing more is needed.
This is the nature of existence – if you do the right things, the right things will happen to you.
How alive, active, passionate, or even ecstatic you are simply depends on your level of intensity.
It is time to conquer the world with inclusiveness and generosity, not with wars and brutal power.
No relationship is absolute – it is always variable. You have to conduct it well on a daily basis.
If you want to receive, you have to give. This is not a marketplace rule. This is the way of life.
You being a pleasant piece of life is one hundred percent in your hands, if you take charge of it.
No one can cause mental pain to you. It is you – in reaction to something that happens around you.
To volunteer is to become willing. To be willing beyond personal choices is the way to liberation.
For a committed person, there is no such thing as failure - just lessons to be learned on the way.
A Guru is like a live roadmap – more important than anything when you are lost in unknown terrain.
If you constantly remember that you are mortal, you will walk gently and sensibly upon this planet.
Compassion is not condescending kindness. It is a passionate engagement with everything around you.
Being in touch with the earth is a reminder that your body is just that – earth. Never forget this.
Yoga is not just about twisting and turning. Yoga means to exist in union with the rest of creation.
Nothing is accidental here. The whole physical existence is happening between cause and consequence.
Health is not just being disease-free. Health is when every cell in your body is bouncing with life.
Do not look up to anything, nor look down on anything. Then you will see creation just the way it is.
Every particle in your body is communicating with the entire cosmos. Yoga is about experiencing that.
People are lazy because they do not know how to rest. If you are restful, you are ready for activity.
When you eat, you take in a part of the earth. How we treat the planet is how we treat our own bodies.
How you handle a situation is not entirely your choice. But how you handle yourself is entirely yours.
Fears and insecurities are unconsciously created by you. If you do not create them, they do not exist.
The mind is like a puzzle with too many pieces missing. Trying to make sense out of it makes no sense.
Your entire life is a Virtual Reality, because you are seeing it only the way it happens in your mind.
Guru Nanak, a wonderful being who did not preach scriptures but came from an inner experience of life.
Someone who is differently abled does not need your compassion or kindness – they just need acceptance.
To plunge into the core of life is the only sacredness there is. To live superficially is the only sin.
Turning inward naturally brings realisation that our existence and the outside world are not different.
The most significant thing about being human is you determine the nature and the pace of your evolution.
The Nation is not the land – it is the people. In transforming the people, we shall have a great Nation.
Who you are is your making. Once you understand this, at least you must make yourself to your own liking.
Do everything like it is the last thing you do. There is nothing to hold back, nothing to save for later.
Life is a process, not a problem. The question is only, have you prepared yourself for the process or not.
Devotion is a place where you do not exist; life just flows through you as a certain sweetness and beauty.
Only if the younger generation does things that the parents never imagined possible, can a society evolve?
The greatest contribution that you can do to all around you is, Make yourself into a wonderful Human Being.
Compulsiveness is like darkness – you cannot fight with it. You have to turn on the light of consciousness.
You cannot fix the past, but you can create a distance with it. That is how the yogic system approaches it.
Human life is a possibility. Do you have the courage and commitment to make the possibility into a reality.
Time and physicality are directly related. Time exists in your experience only because of your physicality.
When there is prejudice and resentment in you, it will make you suffer more than physical disease or injury.
Adiyogi is a symbol, a possibility, and a source of tools to transform yourself and create your own Destiny.
Your ability to love, to reach out, and to experience life is limitless. The limitation is only of the mind.
If you are conscious that you are mortal, there is no time to do anything stupid. You have to stay on track.
Life is Magic. Because you got trapped in the limitations of your logic, you are not experiencing the Magic.
The Fall of a leaf so gentle but profound, as those who fall willingly are the ones who rise to the highest.
Some think it’s in the wine, and other think it’s in the divine, but pleasantness is what everyon’s seeking.
Time is slipping away for all of us at the same pace. You cannot manage time, but you can manage your energy.
Where there is integrity, there will be trust. Where there is trust, there will be an atmosphere for success.
Unleash your desire; limit it not to the limited. In the boundlessness of the desire is your ultimate nature.
What you need to make your marriage successful is not the perfect person. What you need is absolute integrity.
It is my wish that our forces are empowered with immense inner strength which no enemy expects from a soldier.
Your history is animal. Your future is divinity. Right now, you are like a pendulum, swinging between the two.
If you want your relationship to work, constantly remind yourself that the other is more significant than you.
The quality and quantity of your harvest is in direct proportion to the quality and quantity of your striving.
You cannot exist without the universe. You are not a separate existence. 
Learning is not about earning, but a way of flowering.
Don’t hold back your love, your joy, and your exuberance. Only what you give becomes your quality, not what you hold back.
If you use your mind as a memory bank, the past will repeat itself in cycles. If your mind becomes pure attention, you will know everything that is worth knowing.
Without being in constant exchange with the rest of the cosmos, you cannot exist. The idea of individuality is an illusion.
If all your energies are focused in one direction, enlightenment is not far away. After all, what you are seeking is already within you.
What your consciousness is intensely focused on is what will manifest in your life and in the world around you.
Unleash your desire; limit it not to the limited. In the boundlessness of the desire is your ultimate nature. 
Neither health nor joy can be created from outside. There may be external stimuli, but essentially, both come from within.
The most incredible thing is that you can know everything you wish to know with your eyes closed.Do you want to look good or feel good? How wonderful you feel within yourself is most important.
Our lives become beautiful not because we are perfect. Our lives become beautiful because we put our heart into whatever we do.
The nature of life is such that if you allow it to flow, life is a beautiful experience. If you hold back, it becomes misery.
Do not do what you like – do what the world needs. Doing what you like is not freedom. Likes and dislikes are compulsive.
If we are in tune with the fundamental laws of nature, we will enjoy the process of life. Otherwise, suffering is inevitable.
Do not settle for a limited experience of life. Where there is a limitation, there is a possibility of breaking it.
Life is just a certain amount of time and energy. Putting this time and energy to maximum use for everyone’s wellbeing is all that matters.
Every moment of your life, you perform an action – physically, mentally, emotionally, and energy-wise. Each action creates a certain memory.” ‘That is Karma.’ — Sadhguru
There is too much talk about divine love, divine bliss, and divine peace. Love, bliss, and peace are all human qualities. Why export them to heaven?
Putting the well-being of others above your own creates a different kind of strength, a strength that will carry you through life and beyond.
It is a lack of human consciousness that has rendered Mother Earth, the very basis of our existence, into a commodity with an expiry date. Let our time on Earth be the best time; we must act now.
Yoga is not just exercise system. Yoga is the Science of obliterating the boundaries of individuality to know the universality of one’s existence.
The very way you breathe, sit, stand, eat, walk, work – everything can become yoga. You can use any process of life to transcend your limitations.
If you resist change, you resist life.
I am not talking about you being a spectator, I am talking about involvement. I am talking about involving yourself into life in such a way that you dissolve into it.
To rise above the modifications of your mind, when you cease your mind, when you cease to be a part of your mind, that is yoga.
If you handle your entire life with logic alone, you will end up a mess.
May your life happen out of your own clarity and ability, not by chance or out of the compassion and kindness or others.
Passion is focused on one thing – therefore it burns out at some point. Compassion includes everything – it has so much fuel to burn that it does not die out.
If you allow the source of creation within you to find expression, joyful is the only way you can be. May you know the fulfillment of making all that you touch joyful.
Everything comes from the same source. You can be at absolute ease only if you experience yourself as a part of existence, not as a separate individual.
You need to know when to use logic and when not. All the beautiful things in life look stupid if you logically analyze them.
A human is not a being, he is a becoming, he is an ongoing process, nothing is fixed. You can be whichever way you want to be.
Whatever happens to you, you can either see it as a curse and suffer it, or you can see it as a blessing and make use of it.
Don’t go searching for a Guru. When the pain of ignorance within you becomes a scream, a Guru will come in search of you.
The sign of intelligence is that you are constantly wondering. Idiots are always dead sure about every damn thing they are doing in their life.
Confidence and stupidity are a very dangerous combination, but they generally go together.
An intellectual understanding that is not backed by experiential knowledge can lead to mind games and deceptive states.
Reactivity is enslavement. Responsibility is freedom.
Life is a process, not a problem. The question is only, have you prepared yourself for the process or not.
There is no such thing as work-life balance; balance has to be within you.
When you are all-inclusive, your experience of your existence becomes beautiful, and that is why you are joyful.
Some think it’s in the wine, and other think it’s in the divine, but pleasantness is what everyone’s seeking.
Do not talk about the soul, heaven, or God. Talking about something that is not yet a reality for you amounts to falsehood.
Love and hate are two sides of the same coin. Any moment, it can flip the other way. One can become the other.
Every human being is capable of living absolutely blissfully within himself.
It does not take much for a human being to live well. Only when you are trying to imitate someone else, it takes a lot.
I want you to know the power, the liberation of another kind of science – the inner science, the yogic science – through which you can become the master of your destiny.
If you knew the true nature of your existence, you could play the drama of life whichever way you want, to whatever extent you want.
If you face situations that you do not know how to deal with, there are many possibilities. That’s when you can really explore life.
Life is very simple for me. What I know, I know perfectly well. What I do not know, I just do not know – I don’t do any guesswork.
Everyone must have at least a simple spiritual process in their lives. Without this stabilizing factor, economic development will not mean the better life.
You don’t have to do anything, you don’t have to think anything, you don’t have to feel anything to be complete. You are complete by yourself.
Spiritual process is not for the dead or the dying. It is for the living who want to become fully alive in all dimensions of life.
If you want to know whether you are moving forward in life, just see if you are a little more joyful today than you were yesterday.
Only if the younger generation does things that the parents never imagined possible; can a society evolve?
Wherever you may be, whatever you may be, if you are willing to strive, you can evolve yourself beyond the limitations of nature.
Being together is the beginning. Working together in the middle. Dissolving together is the ultimate. My idea of together” is seven billion people.
The physical body has its own memory. Intimacy without commitment leads to disorganization of the human being, and in turn to disorganization of society.
My work is to bring clarity. Once you clearly see that the whole universe is one, everything about you and your relationship with existence will change.
Do not settle for a limited experience of life. Where there is a limitation, there is a possibility of breaking it
My only intention is that you blossom into a full-fledged life because that’s all life is about
The earth is the basis of life. Spending some time touching soil, plants, or trees will harmonize your system
Whatever is most needed right now, that’s what we should do in the world
Believing gives you comfort, solace, and a sense of belonging, but there will be no courage and commitment to seek what is true.
You don’t go to a Guru for solace. He is not a tranquilizer, he is there to awaken you.
Health yoga should not be taught as an exercise form but as a live process; then asanas will lead to ecstatic states.
If we do not work for individual transformation, if we do not look for ways of making the individual peaceful, talking about world peace is just one more entertainment in the world.
Meditation is the only way to freedom from stress as it is a dimension beyond the mind. All the stress and struggle are of the mind.
The mind is not only memory – it is a window to consciousness. Memory is just the information you gathered. Consciousness contains the whole cosmos.
Taking care of the environment is not an obligation – our environment is our life. 
Too many people are hungry not because there is dearth of food. It is because there is dearth of love and care in human hearts.
The most beautiful moments in life are moments when you are expressing your joy, not when you are seeking it.
When pain, misery, or anger happen, it is time to look within you, not around you.
The fear is simply because you are not living with life, you are living in your mind.
People have fallen in love with words and lost the world. It’s time to regain it.
Krishna says in the Gita, The worst crime in the world is indecision.
If you think you are big, you become small. If you know you are nothing, you become unlimited. That’s the beauty of being a human being.
Sex in the body is fine. Money in the wallet is fine. It is only a problem when they enter your mind.
Learning to listen is the essence of intelligent living.
If you think hundred percent logically, there is really no possibility of life.
Mind is not in any one place. Every cell in this body has its own intelligence. The brain is sitting in your head, but mind is all over the place.
Yogis are not against pleasure. It is just that they are unwilling to settle for little pleasures. They are greedy.
It is our compulsive reaction to the situations in which we are placed that causes stress.
Nothing has ever been out of place in this existence. Things have been out of place in human societies.
Your life is just about craving and making something else tremendously more important than you.
Responsibility simply means your ability to respond.
Unless you do the right things, the right things will not happen to you.
To program the calories you must consume and the number of hours you must sleep is a foolish way to handle life.
Money is definitely needed, but how much money do we really need? If we would change our idea of a successful life to a joyful life, we would find our need for money would dramatically decrease.
Most carnivorous animals do not eat every day—definitely not three times a day! They know the food they eat moves very slowly through their tracts.
The man who does only as much as is needed will only get that much.But when it comes to the inner situation, there is only one ingredient: you. At least you must happen the way you want.
One should use information and logic as a drunkard would use a lamp post, only for support, not for illumination.
There is only one calamity: ignorance. And there is only one solution: enlightenment.
Sunlight comes into your house not because you want it. It happens because you open the windows.Your ideas of good and bad are just a certain level of prejudice against life.
Eating natural foods, in their uncooked condition, when the cells are still alive, will bring an enormous sense of health and vitality to the system.
The path is not difficult. It is very simple. If you are simple, it’s very simple. If you are all wound up, the path is very, very winding. That’s all it is.
When you consciously choose to be ordinary, you become extraordinary.
Responsibility means being able to respond to whatever situation you may face in your life.
No work is stressful. It is your inability to manage your body, mind, and emotions that makes it stressful.
Negative energies can’t touch you if you are in a state of meditation.
Karma is your survival and your bondage. And if you handle it right, it can also be your liberation.
Spiritual process is not for the dead or the dying; it is for the living who want to become fully alive in all dimensions of life.
Do not try to fix whatever comes in your life. Fix yourself in such a way that whatever comes, you will be fine.
Intelligence essentially means that your intellect is sharp enough to see life the way it is.
A child is a life that has not gone too far away from the Creator. Know a child to know life.
People try to create an outwardly perfect life, but the quality of life is based on the inward.
The very life within you is longing to be joyful because joyfulness is the nature of the source of creation.
People call books holy, but they are yet to realize that life is holy.
The most beautiful moments in life are moments when you are expressing your joy, not when you are seeking it.
If you want to really know higher dimensions of life, there needs to be a constant sense of peacefulness and joyfulness within you.
If you don’t invest your life in what you really care for, your life will be wasted. You will not fly – you will just drag yourself through life.
Do not wait for miracles to happen. The greatest miracle in life is life itself.
If you seek security in life, unknowingly you seek death. The only truly secure place is your grave.
The fear is simply because you are not living with life, You are living in your mind.
If you know how to keep yourself pleasant within, irrespective of what is happening around you, ultimate liberation cannot be denied to you.
Most of the time you are thinking about life, not living life.
Whatever happens – ultimately, life corrects itself.
Life has come from a very beautiful source. If you remain in touch with that source, everything about you will be beautiful.
Detachment does not mean non-involvement. You can be deeply involved but not entangled.
All beliefs will crash somewhere. Only reality will sustain itself.
Spirituality does not mean going away from life. Spirituality means becoming alive in the fullest possible way so you are not just alive on the surface, you are alive to the core.
Awareness means grasping life just the way it is, without contamination by mental projections.
I do not understand why people want to control their minds. I want them to liberate their minds.
Don’t be dead serious about your life – it’s just a play.
If you choose, you can be joyful every moment of your life. It’s time you made your choice.
Your thoughts and emotions may keep you fully engaged right now, but they are just small offshoots of life – they are not life itself.
Once your life is your expression of blissfulness, you will not be in conflict with anyone.
To live and operate in the world, you may have to identify with something. Play with your identifications, don’t let them rule you.
The mind is a powerful instrument. Every thought, every emotion that you create changes the very chemistry of your body.
Incredible things can be done simply if we are committed to making them happen.
When you exist here only as a body and a mind, suffering is inevitable.
When who you are and what you are is not decided by any external forces, then you are in dignity.
Life is fluid, ever-evolving. The more dynamic you are, the more happens in your life, all the time.
Whatever your goal in life, unless you develop a great urgency, what could be near will be far away.
When every moment, you experience yourself as the source of creation, not as a piece of creation, then you are realized.
Only if you are joyful, you can be free from the fruit of action.
Intelligence is of paramount importance to live life sensibly because, without intelligence, there is no clarity. And Clarity is intelligence everyone is capable of.
A snake knows more about what is happening around than any other creature because it has no ears to listen to gossip – only direct perception.
A human being is like a seed. Either you can keep it as it is, or you can make it grow into a wonderful tree with flowers and fruits.
Now, you believe you are a material person dabbling with. But essentially, you are a spiritual being dabbling with the material world means you have started seeing life with utmost clarity. There are no more illusions about it. You see everything just the way it is.
The source of creation is within you. You can be just a piece of flesh, or you can be the Creator himself – this is the choice and potential you have.
Having a good home, eating good food, wearing good clothes, are a means to living well; they are not the goals of our life. The quality of your life is decided by how peaceful and joyful you are.
Do not try to be special. If you are simply ordinary, more ordinary than others, you will become extraordinary.
Frustration, discouragement, and depression mean you are working against yourself.
The only reason why you are unhappy is because you are trying to be happy.
All along, you’ve been shaping your destiny unconsciously. But you can also work on it consciously. If you make the effort to access your core and realize that everything is your responsibility, and shift your focus inside you, then you can rewrite your destiny.
Your personality is something that you created. Once you are aware of that, you could create it whichever way you want.
Confusion is better than stupid conclusions. In confusion, there is still a possibility. In stupid conclusion, there is no possibility.
A materialistic person is ruthless with other people but kind to himself. A spiritual person is ruthless with himself but kind to everybody else.
Your body and your mind can be receptacles to perceive the whole cosmos – if only you do not identify yourself with them.
If we do not work for individual transformation, talking about world peace is just entertainment.
We neither need a political revolution nor a religious revolution. What we need is an inner transformation in human beings.
Once you have access to the source of creation within you, your health and wellbeing will naturally be taken care of.
If you cultivate your body, your mind, your emotions, and your energies to a certain level of maturity, meditation will blossom.
Self-transformation is not just about changing yourself. It means shifting yourself to a completely new dimension of experience and perception.
If it is conditional, it is not love.
The best thing that you can do to this world is to be joyous. Being joyful is the greatest offering you can make to the world.
When the very source of creation is within you, all the solutions are within you. The problems are just created by you.
Faith is not something that you can cultivate. If it happens to you, it happens, if it doesn’t happen to you it doesn’t happen, that’s all. Does it mean to say – I have to just sit and wait and someday it will fall upon me?” No, it is just that if you understand the fundamentals of living here, in this existence, you will see, for anything to happen, you must create the right kind of situation.
If you strive to make yourself in such a way that nobody can help loving you, life will blossom, everything will yield.
The most fundamental and the most important aspect of the spiritual process can in no way be stopped by anybody – except yourself.
Ignorance is not bliss. Ignorance is brutal. The brutality of ignorance is such that it will make you dead while alive.
If you just live totally, you will dissolve lots of karma. Living totally means that you experience anything that comes fully and intensely.
Life is a fabulous phenomenon if you know how to ride it. Sadhana or spiritual practices empower you to ride the surf of Life.
Both the beautiful and the terrible things human beings do arise from Emotion. Meditation is a way to ensure that the most wonderful things come out of that.
Religions divide – Spiritual Process includes.
Building the nation is not just about infrastructure, politics, and military might. It is also about building successful businesses that serve the nation and the world.
‘This Moment’ is not an idea. It is the only Reality.
Joyful madness is better than death-like sanity.
Just listen to Life – it has its own message. If everyone listens to that message, there will be Harmony and no room for conflict.
Human Potential has no limit; it can go as far as you have the desire or courage to walk. Unleashing Human Potential is not about reaching the peak – it is a trajectory.
Your Body is just a scoop of Soil. Carry it gracefully. And when it is time to put it back, put it back gracefully.
The beauty of life lies not in what you get or have but in How You Are.
The Divine is constantly waiting at your doorstep to move in – if only you allow the necessary space.
I do not have any New Year’s resolutions. I am fully resolved already.
Instead of trying to produce good Human Beings, we need to create Joyful Human Beings. Joyfulness is the greatest insurance against all evil.
The greatest gift you can give to another human being is to Accept, Respect, and Love them.
With the winter solstice, we are transitioning into Uttarayana, a period of immense possibilities for human Consciousness to blossom.
Meditation is a simple process, but it needs unbridled Involvement or absolute Abandon. Without them, there is no such thing as Meditation.
If we want Wellbeing for all Human Beings and the Planet, it is essential that individuals know how to be well by their own nature.
Karma is the foundation of Life. Transforming these foundation stones of who we are into wheels that will roll and then wings that will fly is the essence of the spiritual process.
In pursuit of wellbeing, we have ripped the planet apart, failing to realize that the only way to Human Wellbeing is to dig deeper into ourselves.
If you open up your mind, body, and emotions, your Life will be pretty good. If you open up your energies, it will become Magical.
Do not just learn from your failures; learn not to fail. Whatever you aspire for, figure out how to make it happen. Life is your Karma – it is your Making.
In activity and expression, each human being may be different. But in terms of Essential Life, every human being is the same.
Staying Young means you are never a closed life – you are an open-ended life. You are willing to Evolve, Learn, and be Open to Life all the time.
People can only live together well by creating an ambiance of Nurture, not by forming opinions about each other.
If there is no Inclusiveness, there is no organic Unity to Life. In this lack of unity, human beings suffer endlessly.
This Life is not here to serve this body, mind, or emotion. This body, mind, and emotion are here to serve Life.
Listen to everyone, but never let what they say determine How You Are.
Let the Light of Clarity, Joy, and Aliveness shine bright in your Life. May you have a cracker of a Diwali.Love & Blessings,
Devotion arises in us when we are profoundly touched by something larger than ourselves. It is a natural longing in every human being to be part of a Larger Possibility. In essence, we are all devotees.
When you have a Child, the most important thing is to work upon yourself. Make sure you are a constant example of being a Wonderful Life.
We must structure our societies and our lives in such a way that every kind of Human Being has a role to play.
Once you have made the ‘mistake’ of sitting with me, the seed of Moksha is sown. Whether you like it or not, it will keep pushing you towards Ultimate Liberation.
Whatever the most important goal of your Life may be, unless you treat it with great urgency, what could be near will be far away.
Reverence and gratitude towards every aspect of Life leads to success. May all of you celebrate this day with total Involvement, Joy, and Love.
If you want to hit the peak of your Consciousness, you have to focus all your energy in that direction. Then the Guru will fill the gap to lift you up when it is needed.
Pay attention to Life. Something tremendous is happening every moment.
Consciously choosing to include another life as a Part of You is the most beautiful thing you can do.
The difference between ignorance and knowing is just a subtle shift in Perception.
Once you realize that your time is limited, you will manage your energies, intelligence, and capabilities to yield maximum profoundness of experience and maximum impact in the world.
Once you burn within yourself with an Intensity that no physical substance can generate, Ultimate Liberation will be a natural outcome.
Being a Yogi means you consciously obliterate the boundaries of your individuality to experience the Oneness of Existence.
Meditation means dissolving the invisible walls that unawareness has built.
Sankranti is about Gratitude for what nourishes our life. Step outside, feel, and celebrate the soil, air, water, and food. There is no better Gratitude than Celebration.
Every experience of your life – light and darkness, pain and pleasure, misery and joy, agony and ecstasy – happens only Within you.
Every individual should shape their life according to their particular needs, rather than social trends.
The Life within you cannot be unpleasant. Unpleasantness is created in the Mind.
Being Human endows us with an extraordinary ability to overcome challenges. Let us harness this power to create a Conscious Planet where every life can truly thrive.
If you go outward, it is an endless journey. If you turn Inward, it is just One Moment.
Life is simple. If you do not understand that, you will complicate your life in so many ways.
Mysticism is not meant to be understood, but to be Perceived and Experienced.
Looking good is not important. What truly matters is that Life is a Profound and Fantastic Experience within You.
When you become free from the meanness of the Mind, an indiscriminate sense of Inclusion and Love arises.
The fundamental role of a Guru is not to give teachings and guidance, but to ignite your Energies into a different Possibility.
Your thoughts and emotions may keep you fully engaged right now, but they are just small offshoots of Life – not Life itself.
You may think you have a job, family, possessions. But essentially, the only thing you have is Life. Without that, you have nothing.
Soil is neither a commodity nor an infinite resource. If we destroy it, Life will cease on this planet. Save Soil.
Inner Engineering essentially means engineering this complex machinery of your Body and Mind to work for you, not against you.
Yoga means Union. Whether you find it through discipline or abandon is up to you.
Dhyanalinga is the highest possible manifestation of the Divine – a Living Guru who touches you in dimensions where nothing or no one can.
If your Body, Mind, and Energies are appropriately prepared, well-calibrated fasting can be highly beneficial.
What Children need is Nurture to absorb and experience Life, not a rigid format of education that destroys their innate intelligence.
The only way to prevent conflicts is if Human Beings learn to think beyond ourselves and what is ours. What lies beyond our boundaries is not necessarily an enemy or competition.
Creating a pleasant environment requires the cooperation of other people and forces. But generating pleasantness in your body, mind, emotions, and energies is entirely Yours.
When you Include people around you, they will do their best. When people Love you, they will do their best. This is all you can truly expect from another human being: to do their Best.
As a Human Being, you are not determined by your birth. You are shaped by how you open up, and what you open up in your Life.
Dance does not necessarily mean movement with music. You can work like it is a Dance. You can move like it is a Dance. You can just Dance through your life.
Joy or misery, the source is within You.
Inner Engineering is not about being superhuman. It is about realizing that Being Human is Super.
Do not do Yoga for Life. Just do it Today.
You may not be able to shape every situation in your life, but you certainly have the potential to determine how you Experience every moment of your Life. This is the power of Inner Engineering.
When your laughter is to mock or insult, you laugh and insult Life and the Source of Life. It is not of joy but sickness.
If you become a Full-Fledged Life, everyone will benefit.
You earn a living to Live Well, not to kill yourself with stress.
The Source of Creation is in every atom, every creature, and every cell of your body. If you can access it, your life will be Magical.
In Life, there are an infinite number of doors. If you are diligent, you will open some of them. If you are brilliant, you will open many of them. But if you are Vibrant, they will open for you.
The focus of Education should not be on suppressive information but on kindling the thirst for knowing.
The most precious thing is Life Itself. Will you realize this now, or only on your deathbed.
One day, the earth will consume you. What you consume decides when you will be consumed.
This is an ideal day to clear your home, your mind, and your emotions of all that is redundant, and make a Fresh Start.
Once you shift your priorities from having and doing to Being, your destiny will be in your hands.
Compassion is not condescending kindness. It is a passionate engagement with everything around you.
Only when there is no fear of suffering in you, will you explore Life in its full Possibility.
My only goal has been to make humanity more Conscious. Once you are more Conscious, clarity and success will naturally be yours. Love & Blessings,
True Freedom is about becoming free from everything, including yourself.
The feeling of insecurity comes from not perceiving life in its right context. We are all mortal; we come and we go. The nature and quality of our lives depends on our intensity of Aliveness.
Life is a far larger phenomenon than thought. Unfortunately, Human Beings have gotten too entangled with their own thought.
Once there is Equanimity, every cell in your body will generate Sweetness.
Rest is fantastic. Lethargy is lousy. This winter, learn how to be restful in Body and Mind.
When hormones play up, they distort your whole Vision. You do not have to withdraw to a cave, but you must be able to see through this.
If you can look upon everyone and everything Lovingly, taking you to the Ultimate will be easy.
Irritation, anger, hate, and rage are just progressions. If you feel the mildest sense of irritation, that is what you need to work on.
I have not given the privilege to anyone to make me happy, unhappy, angry, or miserable. This is one thing you should do: your Way of Being should be determined by You.
When it comes to inner nature, if your Consciousness is focused towards something, there is no power in existence that can stop you from getting there.
If not every day, at least once a month, take stock – are you transforming into a better Human.
Meditation means to be able to create any experience you wish, regardless of external situations. Sitting here, you can make your own chemistry Blissful.
Whether you handle life Consciously or unconsciously determines the nature, context, and quality of your Life.
Your anger is your problem – do not give it to the world around you.
You cannot make anyone else Happy unless you know how to Be Happy.
Every living being is a natural seeker. Only those who have reduced themselves to purely physical entities will stop seeking. Otherwise, all Life is Seeking.
The content of your Mind is just an accumulation of past impressions. To know your Existential Nature, you must go beyond it.
Every breath you take, you are getting closer to the grave. But every breath you take, you can also get closer to your Liberation.
Perception is the core of Yoga. The depth of your perception not only determines the profundity of your experience, but also the richness of your knowing.
This is the fundamental nature of Yoga and Mysticism: only if you become absolute Nonexistence, will you know Existence.
There is nothing more important than Life. It is the greatest phenomenon in the known Universe – and you are that.
Love is a process of Inclusion. Once I include you as a part of me, I will be to you just the way I am to myself.
Without duality, Creation would not be possible. The entire cosmic activity requires the presence of two – Shiva–Shakti.
Inner Engineering is not a philosophy, ideology, or religion. It is a technology for Wellbeing and Self-Transformation.