One third of the food produced in the world gets wasted, while one in three people do not have sufficient food. This is not a failure of agriculture – it is a failure of the Human Heart.
Mahalaya Amavasya is the one new moon day in the year that offers the most conducive ambience for you to move from untruth to Truth.
Balance, above all, Balance in Life. If you are mentally, physically, and emotionally balanced, you can do everything to the best of your ability.
Whether you are a man, woman, animal, or an ant – the Source of Life is Within You.
What happened yesterday, you cannot change. What is happening today, you can only experience. What is tomorrow, you have to Create.
When the need to be special is gone, that is when you are unique. The significance of Life is in its Uniqueness.
The greatest miracle in the universe is this: Everything comes out of nothing and goes back to nothing.
When you laugh at someone, you laugh at creation and the Creator. It is not out of joy – it is a sickness.
If your Body and Mind take instructions from you, being Healthy, Peaceful, and Joyful is not only a possibility – it is a natural consequence.
Ecstasy is not just a quality of an individual – it is the quality of Nature itself. In this culture, we say ‘Brahmananda,’ which means that the entire Creation is ecstatic.
On this Ganesh Chaturthi, may the Remover of Obstacles clear the way towards your growth and Ultimate Liberation.
Regardless of who or what you are, there is something within every Human Being that always wants to be more than what you are right now.
You can create a million lies, but there is only one Truth.
Grace is subtle. Unless you are alert, you will miss it.
If you are Balanced, you are on board with Life.
Diversity is a Strength. It has arisen in this culture out of richness, not out of divide.
If Life allows you to do what you really care for, that is the greatest privilege.
Physically, our life depends on so many things around us. But our Way of Being need not be dependent upon anything.
The mind is not only memory – it is a window to Consciousness. Memory is only accumulated information. Consciousness contains the whole Cosmos.
When you move in the right direction, you have the Power to Change the direction of the World itself.
The purpose of Meditation is to create the necessary inner ambience for you to live in Joy, Peace, and in turn unfold your genius.
Once you act with Precision, you will free an enormous amount of Energy, and the Impact of what you do will be greatly enhanced.
Whatever you try to avoid becomes the very basis of your Consciousness.
If your Mind, Body, and Energy are well aligned, you can think at any speed and volume you want.
Opinions are shackles, holding you down to a certain level. Perception of Life is Empowerment.
Essentially, all yogic practices are aimed at heightening your Energy, your Awareness, and your Presence.
If you want to know the Joy of activity, the first and foremost thing is to give yourself to activity with total Abandon.
In reality, there is only now. If you know how to handle This Moment, you know how to handle Eternity.
Unless you are constantly striving to be Inclusive in every possible way, you will not explore the full depth and dimension of what you are capable of.
Human intelligence holds the greatest potential in the known universe, if only we use it Consciously.
Mastery of anything does not come without absolute Devotion.
It is not about agreeing with me or disagreeing with me. Just Be with me and Blossom beyond limitations.
With Awareness, you will know the Meaning of Life. With Abandon, you will know the Magic of Life.
As a generation, it is up to us which aspects of Life we enhance before we fall dead. Are we contributing to the grossness or the Beauty of Life.
There is no such thing as work–life balance – it is all Life. The Balance has to be within You.
Wherever you may be, whatever you may be, if you are Willing to Strive, you can evolve yourself Beyond the limitations of Nature.
When you say, ‘My Life is my Karma,’ you are saying, ‘My Life is my Making.’ This is the most dynamic way to exist.
The whole Human Mechanism is so fantastic. If you make it work for you, it will do wonders. We can give you Tools to make it work for you, not against you.
In yogic culture, Growth means Dissolution. You dissolve your limited persona to become as vast as the Universe. When you are nothing, in some way, you are everything.
For you to Do your Best, you must Be at your Best.
For the possibility of Being Human to truly blossom, you must establish that your external circumstances should not dictate what is happening within you.
When you are in Action, hesitation is the worst crime.
Feminine is not a gender – it is a dimension.
Mar 8, 2021
If you are deeply involved even with the simplest things in Life, you will see every aspect of Life is spectacular.
Engineer your interiority to facilitate the fullest Blossoming of your Being.
A sense of ease brings you the Power of Peace.
See how you can be of maximum use to the people around you – then you will naturally act appropriately.
Once your relationships are about sharing your Joy, rather than extracting Joy out of someone else, you will have wonderful relationships with anyone.
Yogic practices are like food. Food only works for those who eat it. Yogic practices only work for those who do it.
If you carry yesterday with you, your today becomes very heavy – you can neither float nor fly.
The essence of Krishna is in his unwavering Exuberance. In love, in war, in all kinds of strife, he remains a Joyful Human Being. This is how Life should be lived.
A River is a Life beyond you and me. All of us have a date of birth and a date on which we perish. But the Rivers, no one knows what their date of birth is, and there should never be a date of demise for them. Let this be our commitment, for now and for the future.
If we are committed, we can create a world with much less prejudice, and in turn much less conflict.
If you do what you like with 100% Involvement, then what you do not like, you must do with 200% Involvement. That is breaking limitations.
Whatever the situation, are you becoming a better Human Being – more stable, joyful, and clear. Are you growing. That is the only question.
Being angry is like beating yourself up from the inside.
Unless you constantly strive to be better, you will become a stagnant pool. Stagnation will ultimately poison your life.
Devotion starts as an emotion but does not end there. Ultimately, Devotion results in Dissolution.
Intelligent ones wonder – idiots are dead sure.
Power should not be given to people who have no sense of Inclusiveness.
If you are in a state of reaction, anyone and anything can take charge of your Life. Conscious Response is the way forward.
Once you realize that you have so many limitations of your own and they are all created by you, the longing to break them will arise.
Their own thoughts, emotions, and needs keep most people busy for a lifetime. To be above this is Yoga.
Yoga is about aligning Oneself with the cosmic geometry. Through this alignment, boundless Energy, Intelligence, and Wellbeing arise.
Guru’s Grace is not designed to fulfill your plans but Life’s plan for You.
Only those who work Intensely know what rest is.
Do not wait for miracles to happen. The greatest miracle is Life itself.
Whatever you need will happen if you keep your Energies Exuberant and Focused.
How you are should never be determined by how someone else is to you. Once you allow that, you will be a slave all your Life.
Morality is necessary when Spirituality is absent.
From the atomic to the cosmic, the physical can only be cyclical. The more you are identified with your Body, the more cyclical you become.
If you die of Excitement, it is all right. Such a magnificent Creation and you die of boredom – that is a crime.
If your Joy and Love are not enslaved to anyone, but you are joyful and loving by your own nature, then any kind of relationship will flourish.
Empowering Girl Children is paramount. A human being is truly empowered when they feel wonderful by themselves. For that to happen, individuals need a spiritual process in their lives.
If instead of trying to manage your time, you clearly set your Priorities, time will arrange itself around them.
The basic virtue for any Human Being is to be true to yourself – Integrity of thought, emotion, and action.
When an individual is Committed to something beyond their own personal wellbeing, there will be a very powerful situation.
Human suffering is manufactured in the human mind, as are human limitations.
If we do not take care of a few fundamentals of environmental sustainability, the price we pay will be very unfortunate.
Jan 10, 2021
Success does not come from the alignment of your stars, but from proper execution and Commitment to fulfilling your Purpose. Above all, to be well aligned within.
Enlightened ones have always been referred to as dwijas or ‘twice born.’ May you obliterate the creaturehood and blossom into a Being.
When you wake up in the morning, the first thing you should do is Smile. You are Alive! Is that not the greatest blessing and reason enough to Smile.
While Karma is your bondage, if you handle it right, Karma can also be a stepping stone to your Liberation.
If you are inclusive, Life happens. If you are exclusive, only your psychological drama happens.
For the kind of Potential that a Human Being carries, it is a very brief Life.
This is what Yoga means: a conscious obliteration of your individual boundaries so that you become a Universal Existence.
Whether you can perform like someone else or not is not the point. The question is, are you exploring the full depth of your Potential.
Your Karma is not in what is happening to you. Your Karma is in the way you Experience and Respond to what is happening to you.
A relationship is about someone else. Love is your nature.
Beyond the noise of marketplace and relationships, wealth and possessions, gods and devils, there is a Temple of Silence. This is where beings are made and unmade.
The root of all Life is in the Soil. Without saving the Soil, there is no way to address issues like climate change, global warming, and ocean pollution.
There is an innate longing within human beings to go beyond all limitations. Naga is a living deity created as an access point to Perceive Life on a larger scale.
Only the physical can be threatened. When a dimension beyond the physical becomes a Living Experience for you, there will be no more fear.
A Great Nation is built with Great People. This is the relentless effort we need to make in the coming years: building individuals who are physically robust, mentally unassailable, and brimming with skills.
Destiny is the cumulative result of all your actions and the impressions you have taken in.
Life is a dream, but the dream is True.
Children do not listen to you. They observe you. Make sure your way of being is an Inspiration.
Compassion is an all-inclusive passion.
If you knew how to manage your system well, you would not create a chemistry of anxiety or misery, but one of Blissfulness.
One life is not more important than another; every life and every species is important to maintain ecological Balance and coherent evolutionary Process. Conscious Human activity is the only way; give it a chance.
The best thing you can do for your children is to ensure they never witness anger, fear or conflict at home. Let them grow up in an atmosphere of Joy and Love.
Wherever you are, whatever you are exposed to, pick up the best from every situation. Then, Life is Learning.
When it comes to Joy, Love, and the Exuberance of Life, you are the Source of it.
Love means being willing to Nurture another Life beyond opinions and prejudice.
The Body is individual. The Mind is individual. But Consciousness cannot be individual; it is All-Inclusive.
Whether you call it a stone, a tree, an animal, a man, a demon, or the Divine – everything is the same Energy, manifesting itself in a million different ways.
Family is a training ground to rise beyond likes and dislikes.
quotation mark
When you are in a great hurry to do something, hold back a few seconds – that is all it takes to shift from compulsiveness to Consciousness.
